Dogs have three eyelids, including one to keep their eyes moist.
A dog’s sense of smell is at least 40 times better than a human’s.
Dalmatians are born completely white and develop spots over time.
Dogs can learn over 1000 words and gestures.
The Basenji is known as the "barkless dog" because it makes a unique yodel-like sound.
A Greyhound can run up to 45 miles per hour.
Dogs sweat through their paw pads.
The Newfoundland breed has webbed feet.
Puppies are born deaf and blind.
Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds.
The Beagle is one of the most popular scent hounds.
Dogs dream just like humans.
The Norwegian Lundehund has six toes on each foot.
A dog’s nose print is as unique as a human fingerprint.
Dogs can be trained to detect diseases like cancer and diabetes.
Some dogs can learn to count and do simple math.
The Saluki is one of the oldest dog breeds in the world.
The Chow Chow has a blue-black tongue.
Dogs curl up when they sleep to protect vital organs.
The fastest recorded dog was a Greyhound named Star Title.
Dogs can see in the dark better than humans.
The average dog is as smart as a two-year-old child.
Dogs can sense Earth’s magnetic field.
Dogs have 18 muscles in each ear.
Bloodhounds can follow a scent trail for over 130 miles.
Dogs can hear four times as far as humans.
Tail wagging has its own language.
Yawning is contagious between dogs and humans.
A wet nose helps dogs absorb scent chemicals.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular dog breed in many countries.
Dogs mark their territory with scent glands in their paws.
The world’s smallest dog was a Chihuahua named Milly.
Dogs can recognize themselves in mirrors after training.
Dogs have a dominant paw just like humans have a dominant hand.
The sense of smell in dogs is 10,000 to 100,000 times more acute than in humans.
Dogs are capable of understanding up to 250 words and gestures.
Dogs get jealous when their owners show affection to others.
The Great Dane is one of the tallest dog breeds.
Dogs can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Some dogs are trained to detect bombs and drugs.
Dogs are descendants of wolves.
Dogs can hear ultrasonic frequencies.
Dogs use facial expressions to communicate.
Poodles are excellent swimmers.
Dogs’ whiskers are sensitive to changes in airflow.
Dogs communicate through body language.
The Shar Pei has wrinkles to help in dog fights.
Dogs have a better sense of motion detection than humans.
Dogs rely on routine and feel stress when it changes.
The Alaskan Malamute was bred for strength and endurance.
Dogs can get sunburned.
The Dachshund was bred to hunt badgers.
Dogs can suffer from anxiety and depression.
Dogs lick to show affection or to get attention.
A dog’s nose can detect heat.
Border Collies are considered the most intelligent dog breed.
Dogs pant to regulate their body temperature.
Some dogs have double coats.
Dogs can understand human emotions.
Dogs have dreams during REM sleep.
Corgis were originally bred to herd cattle.
Dogs have twice as many muscles for moving their ears as humans.
Dogs can smell your feelings.
The Saint Bernard was originally bred for rescue work in the Alps.
Dogs have unique barks for different situations.
Some dogs are trained to detect allergens.
Dogs understand the tone of your voice.
The Akita is a symbol of protection and good health in Japan.
Dogs see in shades of blue and yellow.
Dogs can get freckles on their noses.
Dogs can mimic human facial expressions.
The Basset Hound has the best sense of smell after the Bloodhound.
A dog’s tail position indicates its emotional state.
The Australian Shepherd is actually from the United States.
Dogs enjoy listening to music, especially classical.
Dogs can learn to play simple games.
Dogs often tilt their heads to better locate sounds.
The Pomeranian was a favorite of Queen Victoria.
Some dogs can be allergic to humans.
Dogs can get hiccups.
The average dog sleeps about 12 to 14 hours a day.
Some dogs are trained to assist people with disabilities.
Dogs can detect seizures before they happen.
Dogs can sense natural disasters.
Dogs bark in different accents depending on their region.
Dogs can tell time.
Dogs respond to facial expressions.
Some dogs snore just like people.
Dogs have a third eyelid called the haw.
The Papillon’s name means "butterfly" in French.
Dogs sweat through their nose and paws.
Dogs can have blood types.
Some dogs enjoy watching TV.
Dogs can have dreams about their owners.
Dogs’ sense of smell is used in search and rescue.
Dogs can recognize other dogs on TV.
Dogs’ whiskers help them navigate in the dark.
The Irish Wolfhound is one of the tallest dog breeds.
Dogs can suffer from OCD.
Dogs express happiness with their whole bodies.
Dogs have different barks for play, warning, and fear.
The Pharaoh Hound blushes when excited.
Dogs can detect cancer with nearly 98% accuracy.
Dogs use sneezing as a form of communication during play.
The Japanese Chin cleans itself like a cat.
Dogs can sense pregnancy in humans.
Dogs were domesticated at least 15,000 years ago.
Dogs have been to space.
The first living creature in orbit was a dog named Laika.
Dogs can smell in stereo.
Dogs can be picky eaters.
Dogs prefer meat over vegetables.
Dogs can get cavities and need dental care.
Dogs wag their tails more to the right when they’re happy.
Some dogs can hold their breath underwater.
Dogs have scent glands in their cheeks.
A dog’s heartbeat is faster than a human’s.
Dogs sometimes chase their tails from boredom or anxiety.
The Belgian Malinois is popular in military and police work.
Dogs can see flickering lights better than humans.
Dogs learn best through positive reinforcement.
Dogs can detect changes in blood sugar levels.
Dogs can suffer from PTSD.
Some dogs prefer specific types of toys.
Dogs can get lonely and need companionship.
Dogs sometimes eat grass to help with digestion.
Dogs have been known to save lives.
Dogs often sleep in a curled-up position for warmth.
The sense of taste is weakest among a dog’s senses.
Dogs like routines and feel safer with structure.
Dogs’ tails help them balance.
Dogs can develop fears and phobias.
Dogs are capable of empathy.
Some dogs enjoy swimming, others do not.
Dogs can tell the difference between a smile and a frown.
Dogs’ ears move independently.
Dogs shake to dry themselves faster than any other animal.
Dogs get the zoomies when they’re overexcited.
Dogs use their noses like we use our eyes.
Some dogs are trained to detect counterfeit currency.
Dogs can hear electricity.
Dogs like to burrow in blankets because it feels safe.
Dogs sometimes pretend to be hurt to get attention.
Dogs’ heart rates increase when they hear their owner’s voice.
Dogs learn by watching other dogs.
Dogs can recognize themselves in videos.
Dogs are used in therapy for mental health support.
Some dogs howl in response to music or sirens.
Dogs have a good memory for routines and people.
Dogs wag their tails more when around people they love.
Some dogs enjoy dressing up.
Dogs bond strongly with their families.
Dogs love belly rubs because it shows trust.
Dogs can distinguish between human faces.
Dogs rely heavily on body language cues.
Some dogs develop strong attachments to certain objects.
Dogs can be trained to detect COVID-19.